Getting Started With PyTower
============================

Welcome to the PyTower user guide!

Installation
------------
To start, ensure that PyTower is correctly installed. If the installation was a success, then you should be able to use the command ``pytower`` in terminal, and you should find the sub-directory tower-unite-suitebro in the main installation/repository folder, which contains a suitebro file format parser written in Rust by Brecert: https://github.com/brecert/tower-unite-suitebro

For more info about the installation process, see :ref:`Installation Guide & Troubleshooting. <install_guide>`

General Usage
-------------
When using PyTower, there are the following subcommands available to you:
 - ``pytower help``: PyTower help
 - ``pytower version``: PyTower version
 - ``pytower convert``: Convert between CondoData and .json
 - ``pytower backup``: (WIP) Canvas backup tool
 - ``pytower list``: List all detected tools
 - ``pytower info <TOOLNAME>``: Get detailed information about ``<TOOLNAME>``
 - ``pytower scan <PATH>``: Scans path/directory for tool scripts
 - ``pytower run <TOONAME> ...``: Run given tool
 - ``pytower fix``: Fix broken canvases and corruption in given file
 - ``pytower compress`` (WIP) Compression tool
 - ``pytower config``: PyTower configuration


Example usages:
 - ``pytower help``: Displays help about PyTower
 - ``pytower info Tile``: Gets advanced info/help for tool "Tile"
 - ``pytower scan .``: Scans current directory for tool scripts to add
 - ``pytower run Rotate --output RotatedCondo --select group:4 -@ rotation=0,0,45 local=true``: Runs the "Rotate" tool with a group selection and passed-through parameters


For any subcommand, leaving a requirement blank will bring up a help page. For example, running the command ``pytower run`` without any additional arguments will bring up a detailed help page generated by Python ``argparse``.

Using ``pytower run``
---------------------
``pytower run <TOOL>`` has the following arguments:
 - ``<TOOL>``: Required positional parameter, replace this will the name of a tool!
 - ``-i``/``--input``: Input file to use (default: CondoData)
 - ``-o``/``--output``: Output file to use (default: CondoData_output)
 - ``-s``/``--select``: Selection mode to use (default: ``items``)
 - ``-v``/``--invert``: Flag to invert selection
 - ``-j``/``--json``: Flag to skip Suitebro parser steps
 - ``-@``/``--parameters``: Beginning of *tool parameters*

To access your CondoData files, you need to first navigate to your Steam program files. From here, the path is typically given by ``Steam\userdata[steamid3]\394690\remote\Condos\``. Here you'll find folders that correspond to each condo type, for example ``WK_LevelEditor`` corresponds to the workshop level editor. Within each folder, there is CondoData (main currently active save) and folders for each snapshot taken, each with its own CondoData used when saving/loading a new snapshot.

One current limitation of Tower Unite is that there's no way to hot-reload a map from disk. Even if you exit the condo and reenter it, the file from the start of the session will load instead. Therefore, whenever you make a change to CondoData, remember that the game must be exited and relaunched. For further discussion of this, see `Issue: Reloading Saves In-Game`__

.. _reload_issue: https://github.com/rainbowphysics/PyTower/issues/3
__ reload_issue_

By default, the ``--output`` filename will be the same as the input filename but with ``_output`` appended to the end. If you find this inconvenient, you can make PyTower overwrite a file instead by inputting the same value for ``--output`` as input. For example: ``pytower run center --input CondoData --output CondoData``. Just make sure you back-up your save in a snapshot or outside of Tower Unite before doing this!

Selection Modes
---------------
- ``items`` (default): Everything except property-only objects (CondoSettingsManager_2, Ultra_Dynamic_Sky_##, CondoWeather_2729, etc.)``
- ``name:<NAME>``: Selects object by name (both custom name and internal object name)
- ``customname:<NAME>``: Select objects by custom name (name assigned in game)
- ``objname:<NAME>``: Select objects by internal object name only
- ``group:<ID>``: Select objects by group id
- ``random:<PROB>``: Randomly selects objects with probability ``PROB``
- ``take:<NUM>``: Randomly selects ``NUM`` number of objects
- ``<NUM>%``: Randomly select ``NUM`` percent of objects
- ``box:<X1>,<Y1>,<Z1>/<X2>,<Y2>,<Z2>``: Select objects with position falling inside box
- ``sphere:<X>,<Y>,<Z>/<R>``: Select objects with position falling inside sphere of radius ``R``.
- ``all``: Everything including property-only objects
- ``none``: Nothing (can be useful for generation tools)

Selection Operators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Currently, the following selection operators are supported (in order of operator precedence):
 - Intersection ``*``
 - Addition ``+``
 - Difference ``\``
 - Composition ``;``

Examples:
 - ``group:1+group:3``: Select group 1 and group 3
 - ``group:42;10%``: Select 10% of objects in group 42
 - ``name:CanvasWedge\group:5``: Select canvas wedges excluding group 5

.. note::

   When inputting operators, it's important to not include any spaces. Spaces will be interpretted as additional arguments by argparse and break the ``pytower`` command.

Tool Parameter Format
---------------------
- Parameters are separated by spaces and have the format ``param=value``. Currently ``value`` must be a consecutive string of characters with no spaces or other forms of whitespace.
- For example, ``pytower run MyTool -@ offset=0,0,300 foo=42`` passes two parameters to MyTool: ``offset`` with the value ``xyz(0,0,300)`` and ``foo`` with the value ``42``.
- Each tool has its own parameters. Use ``tool info <TOOLNAME>`` to bring up information about a tool's parameters